you
this lecture is a continual discussion
of generative probabilistic models for
text classroom in this lecture we're
going to finish the discussion of
generative published models for text
classroom so this is a slide that you
have seen before and here we show how we
define the mixture model for text
clustering and what the likelihood
function looks like and we can also
compute the maximum like or estimator to
estimate the parameters in this lecture
we're going to talk more about how
exactly we're going to compute in the
maximum likelihood estimator now as in
most cases the e/m algorithm can be used
to solve this problem for mixture models
so here's the detail of the CM algorithm
for document clustering now if you have
understood how a.m. ours works for topic
models like a pasa and I think here it
would be very similar and you just need
to adapt a little bit to the this new
mixture model so as you may recall emm
starts with initialization of all the
parameters so this is it that's the same
as what happened before for topic models
and then we're going to repeat until
their likelihood converges and in each
step we'll do a step and aim step in aim
step organ infer which distribution has
been used to generate each document and
so we have to introduce a hidden
variable Z D for each document and this
variable variable could take a value
from the range of ones okay representing
K different distributions and more
specifically basically we're going to
apply Bayes rule to infer which
distribution is more likely to have
generated this document or computing the
posterior probability of the
distribution given the document
and we know it's proportional to the
probability of selecting this
distribution P of theta I and the
probability of generating this whole
document are from that distribution
which is a product of the probabilities
of words for this document as you see
here now as in all cases it's useful to
kind of remember the normalizer or the
or the constraint on this opportunity so
in this case we know the constraint on
this probability in the Estep is that
all the probabilities of Z equals I must
sum to one because the document must
have been generated from precisely one
of these K topics so the probability of
being generated from each of them should
sum to one and if you know this
constraint then you can easily compute
this distribution as long as you know
what it is proportional to right so once
you compute this product that you see
here then you simply normalize this
these probabilities to make them
something one over all the topics so
let's each step after each step but we
wouldn't know which distribution is more
likely to have generated this document a
D and which is unlikely and then in the
m-step or going to reuse made all the
parameters based on the inverter z
values or inferred knowledge about which
the string has been used to generate
which document so the realization
involves two kinds of parameters one is
p of theta and this is the probability
of selecting a particular distribution
before we observe anything we don't have
any knowledge about which cluster is
more likely but after we have observed
these documents then we can collect the
evidence to infer which cluster is more
likely and so this is proportional to
the sum of the probability
Z sub D J is equal to I and so this this
gives us all the evidence about using
topic I theta I to generate a document
and we'll put them together and again we
normalize them into probabilities and
then so this is for T of theta sub I now
the other kind of parameters are the
probabilities of words in each
distribution in each cluster and this is
very similar to the case of P I say and
here we just pour the count on words
that are in documents that are inverted
to have been generated from a particular
topic of theta I here and this would
allow us to then estimate how many words
have actually been generated from theta
I and then we normalize again these
counts in the probabilities so that the
probabilities on all the words would sum
to one note that it's very important to
understand these constraints as they are
precisely the normalizes in all these
formulas and it's it's also important to
know that the distribution is over what
for example the probability of theta is
over all the key topics and that's why
these K probabilities was something one
whereas the probability of a word given
theta is the probability distribution
over all the words so there are many
probabilities and they have to sum to
one so now let's take a look like let's
take a look at the simple example of two
clusters now I have two clusters I've
seen some
initializer values for the two
distributions and let's assume we
randomly initialize two probabilities of
selecting each cluster as 0.5 so equally
likely and then let's consider one
document in that you have seen here
there are two words sorry two
occurrences of text and two occurrences
of mine
so there are four words together medical
and health did not occur in this
document so it's first thing about the
hidden variables now for each document
we must use a hidden variable and before
in PRSA we use the one hidden variable
for each world because that's the output
from one mixture model so in our case
the output former mixture model or the
observation from mixture model is a
document not a word so now I have one
hidden variable attached to the document
now that hidden variable must tell us
which distribution has been used to
generate the document so it's going to
take two values
one and two to indicate the two topics
so now how do we infer which
distribution has been used or generally
the D well it's to use Bayes rule so it
looks like this in order for the first
stop the theta want to generate the
document we two things must happen first
theta sub one must have been selected so
it's given by P of theta one second it
must have also been generating the four
words in the document namely two
occurrences of text and two occurrences
of mining that's why you see the
numerator has the product of the
probability of selecting theta one and
the probability of generating the
document from salawa so the denominator
is just the sum of two possibilities of
generality in this document and in a
plug in the numerical values to verify
indeed in this case the document is more
likely to be generated from Stila were
much more likely than from Xena too so
once we have this problem in either we
can easily compute the probability of Z
equals to keep in this document how well
we can use the constraint right that
what's been the 1 minus 100 over 1
million 1 so now it's important to note
that in such a computation there is a
potential problem of underflow
and that is because if you look at the
numerator the original
numerator and the denominator it
involves the computation of a product of
many small probabilities imagine if a
document has many words and it can be a
very small value here it can cause the
problem of underflow
so to solve the problem we can use a
normalize so here you see that we take a
ver egde of all these two large
traditions to compute another average
the screen called a thinner bar and this
tests the average distribution would be
comparable to each of these
distributions in terms of the quantities
and the magnitude so we can then divide
the numerator and the denominator both
by this normalizer so basically this
memorize is the probability of
generating this document by using this
average word distribution so you can see
the normalizer here and since we have
used exactly the same known writer for
the numerator and the denominator the
whole value of this expression is not
changed but by doing this normalization
you can see we can make the numerators
and the denominators more manageable in
in that the overall value is not going
to be very small for each and that's we
can avoid the underflow problem in some
other times we sometimes also use
logarithm of the product to convert this
into a sum of log of probabilities this
can help preserve precision as well but
in this case we cannot use logarithms to
solve problem because there's a sum in
the denominator but this kind of
normalizes can be effective for solving
this problem so it's a technique that
that's sometimes useful in other
situations as well now let's look at the
m-step so from the east step we can see
our estimate of which this revision is
more likely to have
to the document II right and you can see
he wants me more likely from the first
topic whereas t2 is more like from the
second topic et cetera now let's think
about what we need to compute in the
m-step well basically we need to really
meet all the parameters its first look
at the P of theta 1 and P L theta 2 well
how do we estimate that well intuitively
you can just pull together this Z and
probably the Z probabilities from in
step right so if all these documents say
well they're more likely from theta one
then we intuitively would give a high
probability to see that Wow right so in
this case so we can just take the
average of these probabilities that you
see here and we obtain a point six four
zero one so Scylla wines more likely and
then 0-2 so you can see probability of
theta two would be naturally point four
what about these were the probabilities
what we do the same and the intuition is
the same so we're going to see or in
order to estimate the probabilities of
words in theta one we're going to look
at which documents have been generated
from Sinagua
and we're going to pour together the
words in those documents and normalize
them so this is basically what I just
said
more specifically we will do for example
use all the kinds of text in these
documents to estimate the probability of
text came in silhouette but we're not
going to use their raw count or total
counts instead we're going to then
discount them by the probabilities that
each document is likely be generated
from Stila one so this gives us some
fractional counts and then these counts
will be then normalized in order to get
the probability now how do we normalize
them well these probabilities of these
words must sum to one so to summarize
our discussion of generative models for
clustering well we show that a slight
variation of topic model can be used for
custom documents and this also shows the
power of generative models in general by
changing the generation of some
and changing the model slightly we can
achieve different goals and we can
capture different patterns in text data
so in this case each cluster is
represented by a unigram language model
our water distribution and that's
similar to into a topic model so here
you can see the water distribution
actually generates a term cluster as a
byproduct a document that is generated
by first choosing a unigram damage model
and then generating all the words in the
document that using this single language
model and this is very different from
again topping bottle where we can
generate the words in the document by
using multiple immigrant language models
and then the estimated model parameters
will give both a topical
characterization of each cluster and the
probabilistic assignment of each
document into a cluster and this
probabilistic assignment is sometimes is
useful for some applications but if we
want to achieve a harder clusters mainly
to partition tokens into destroying the
clusters then we can just a force a
document into the cluster
corresponding to the water distribution
that's most likely to have generated
with the document we've also assume that
the near Matteson can be used we
computed the maximum writer is mater and
in this case we need to use a special
normalization technique to avoid or
underflow
you